README.md, before:

# AI Governance Framework

Governance policies for teams using AI coding assistants. Drop into any repo, works automatically.

AI coding tools generate code fast — but without guardrails, they skip tests, hardcode secrets, ignore security, and hallucinate APIs. This framework makes your AI assistant follow your team's engineering standards by default.

**You type naturally. The AI follows governance automatically.**

## Install

Run this in your project:

```bash
npx ai-governance-setup
```

<details>
<summary>Alternative: shell script</summary>

```bash
git clone https://github.com/chasesaurabh/ai-governance.git
cd AIGovernance && ./install.sh /path/to/your-project
```

Non-interactive: `./install.sh --all /path` · `./install.sh --tools windsurf,cursor /path` · `./install.sh --core-only /path`
</details>

## How It Works

The framework includes an **auto-router** that reads your prompt, detects what you're trying to do, and applies the right governance workflow. No setup, no slash commands needed.

| You type | AI does |
|----------|---------|
| "The login page is broken" | Bug fix workflow: reproduce → root cause → regression test → fix |
| "Add user authentication" | Feature workflow: TDD, security gates, code review |
| "Deploy to production" | Deploy workflow: progressive rollout, all gates |
| "Site is down!" | Incident response: immediate triage, no questions asked |
| "Is this SQL safe?" | Security review: injection checks, parameterized queries |
| "Refactor this" | Refactor workflow: tests first, then simplify |

## Supported Tools

| Tool | Auto-loads? |
|------|------------|
| **Windsurf** (Cascade) | Yes — 10 workflows + auto-router |
| **Cursor** | Yes — rules + auto-router |
| **GitHub Copilot** | Yes |
| **Claude Code** | Yes |
| **Aider** | Yes |

## What's Included

- **17 policies** — requirements, architecture, testing, security, deployment, incident response, secrets, and more
- **7 templates** — PR checklist, definition of done, ADR, threat model, AI usage disclosure
- **Auto-router** — detects intent, triggers the right workflow, zero config
- **KPIs** — measurable targets for every policy area
- **Works on** Windows, Mac, and Linux

Each policy has an objective, enforceable controls, evidence artifacts, an owner, and an exception path. See `ai-governance/INDEX.md` for the full navigation guide.

## After Install

1. **Start coding** — governance loads automatically in your AI tool
2. **Customize** policies in `ai-governance/policies/` to fit your team (optional)
3. **Commit** the governance files to your repo

## Contributing

See `CONTRIBUTING.md`.

Commit message:

chore: release v1.0.1 — examples, CI templates, enforcement model, fixes
Added:
- examples/ folder with 4 workflow walkthroughs (feature, bugfix, security-review, incident)
- examples/router-tests.md with 50-prompt intent classification validation suite
- examples/ci/ with GitHub Actions and Azure DevOps governance gate templates
- CHANGELOG.md with versioning policy and change proposal process
- Enforcement Model section in README (adapters = advisory, CI = enforcement)
- Exception proposal + renewal process in exceptions-log.md

Changed:
- Fixed git clone cd directory (ai-governance, not AIGovernance)
- Clarified interactive CLI in README
- CLI banner: 'CI-ready' replaces 'Red-team tested'
- Removed stray // turbo from fix-bug.md

Removed:
- All references to non-existent ai-governance/red-team/ folder

README.md, after:

# AI Governance Framework

Governance policies for teams using AI coding assistants. Drop into any repo, works automatically.

AI coding tools generate code fast — but without guardrails, they skip tests, hardcode secrets, ignore security, and hallucinate APIs. This framework makes your AI assistant follow your team's engineering standards by default.

**You type naturally. The AI follows governance automatically.**

## Install

Run this in your project:

```bash
npx ai-governance-setup
```

The setup wizard asks which AI tools you use, then installs the core policies and selected adapters. Use `--all` or `--core-only` flags for non-interactive mode (see `install.sh --help`).

<details>
<summary>Alternative: shell script</summary>

```bash
git clone https://github.com/chasesaurabh/ai-governance.git
cd ai-governance && ./install.sh /path/to/your-project
```

Non-interactive: `./install.sh --all /path` · `./install.sh --tools windsurf,cursor /path` · `./install.sh --core-only /path`
</details>

## How It Works

The framework includes an **auto-router** that reads your prompt, detects what you're trying to do, and applies the right governance workflow. No setup, no slash commands needed.

| You type | AI does |
|----------|---------|
| "The login page is broken" | Bug fix workflow: reproduce → root cause → regression test → fix |
| "Add user authentication" | Feature workflow: TDD, security gates, code review |
| "Deploy to production" | Deploy workflow: progressive rollout, all gates |
| "Site is down!" | Incident response: immediate triage, no questions asked |
| "Is this SQL safe?" | Security review: injection checks, parameterized queries |
| "Refactor this" | Refactor workflow: tests first, then simplify |

## Supported Tools

| Tool | Auto-loads? |
|------|------------|
| **Windsurf** (Cascade) | Yes — 10 workflows + auto-router |
| **Cursor** | Yes — rules + auto-router |
| **GitHub Copilot** | Yes |
| **Claude Code** | Yes |
| **Aider** | Yes |

## What's Included

- **17 policies** — requirements, architecture, testing, security, deployment, incident response, secrets, and more
- **7 templates** — PR checklist, definition of done, ADR, threat model, AI usage disclosure
- **Auto-router** — detects intent, triggers the right workflow, zero config
- **KPIs** — measurable targets for every policy area
- **Works on** Windows, Mac, and Linux

Each policy has an objective, enforceable controls, evidence artifacts, an owner, and an exception path. See `ai-governance/INDEX.md` for the full navigation guide.

## Enforcement Model

Adapters provide guidance and auto-routing behavior, but **enforcement ultimately depends on the tool, team discipline, and CI gates**.

| Layer | Role |
|-------|------|
| **AI IDE adapters** | Advisory — guides correct behavior at authoring time |
| **Pre-commit hooks** | Blocking — catches secrets and lint issues locally |
| **CI pipeline** | **Enforcement** — SAST, coverage gates, dependency scanning on every PR |
| **PR review + templates** | Human verification with structured checklists |
| **Runtime controls** | WAF, secret managers, monitoring, alerting |

IDE rules guide. CI gates enforce. See `GOVERNANCE-MATRIX.md` for full enforcement mapping and `examples/ci/` for ready-to-use pipeline templates.

## After Install

1. **Start coding** — governance loads automatically in your AI tool
2. **Customize** policies in `ai-governance/policies/` to fit your team (optional)
3. **Set up CI enforcement** — use templates in `examples/ci/` to wire governance into your pipeline (recommended)
4. **Commit** the governance files to your repo

## Contributing

See `CONTRIBUTING.md`.
